Molecular subtyping of triple-negative breast cancers (TNBCs) via gene expression profiling is essential for understanding the molecular essence of this heterogeneous disease and for guiding individualized treatment. We aim to devise a clinically practical method based on immunohistochemistry (IHC) for the molecular subtyping of TNBCs. By analyzing the RNA sequencing data on TNBCs from Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center (FUSCC) (n = 360) and The Cancer Genome Atlas data set (n = 158), we determined markers that can identify specific molecular subtypes. We performed immunohistochemical staining on tumor sections of 210 TNBCs from FUSCC, established an IHC-based classifier, and applied it to another two cohorts (n = 183 and 214). We selected androgen receptor (AR), CD8, FOXC1, and DCLK1 as immunohistochemical markers and classified TNBCs into five subtypes based on the staining results: (a) IHC-based luminal androgen receptor (IHC-LAR; AR-positive [+]), (b) IHC-based immunomodulatory (IHC-IM; AR-negative [-], CD8+), (c) IHC-based basal-like immune-suppressed (IHC-BLIS; AR-, CD8-, FOXC1+), (d) IHC-based mesenchymal (IHC-MES; AR-, CD8-, FOXC1-, DCLK1+), and (e) IHC-based unclassifiable (AR-, CD8-, FOXC1-, DCLK1-). The k statistic indicated substantial agreement between the IHC-based classification and mRNA-based classification. Multivariate survival analysis suggested that our IHC-based classification was an independent prognostic factor for relapse-free survival. Transcriptomic data and pathological observations implied potential treatment strategies for different subtypes. The IHC-LAR subtype showed relative activation of HER2 pathway. The IHC-IM subtype tended to exhibit an immune-inflamed phenotype characterized by the infiltration of CD8+ T cells into tumor parenchyma. The IHC-BLIS subtype showed high expression of a VEGF signature. The IHC-MES subtype displayed activation of JAK/STAT3 signaling pathway. We developed an IHC-based approach to classify TNBCs into molecular subtypes. This IHC-based classification can provide additional information for prognostic evaluation. It allows for subgrouping of TNBC patients in clinical trials and evaluating the efficacy of targeted therapies within certain subtypes.